README.md, before:

# cc65-dbg

This VS Code extension adds syntax and debugger support for cc65 and ca65.

## Features

Works with an adapter/emulator supporting Debug Adapter Protocol (DAP).

You need to provide your own debugger or debug adapter as `"command"` option,
which is able to communicate using DAP protocol over stdin/stdout or TCP socket.

The main job of this extension is to parse [debug info][1] file generated by
`ld65 --dbgfile` and use the information to drive the debugger executable.
It expects the file to be placed beside the `"program"` binary,
with `.dbg` extension.

[1]: https://cc65.github.io/doc/ld65.html#s7

### Requirements

> :warning: Following are violations of Debug Adapter Protocol, used to simplify
> the DAP-debugger implementation for 8-bit machine emulators.

The extension will present the breakpoint memory addresses as `lines` property
of [SetBreakpoints Request][2]. Debugger does not need to know anything
about the source structure - this is the job of the extension. It just needs to be able to
set *memory breakpoints*, pause and step through the program execution.

[2]: https://microsoft.github.io/debug-adapter-protocol/specification#Requests_SetBreakpoints

Breakpoints are presented in packs identified with `sourceReference` number
(`0` included) of [Source][3] descriptor. Your debugger endpoint should track the
source reference number of a breakpoint in order to remove it, when an update
for the pack is being received.

[3]: https://microsoft.github.io/debug-adapter-protocol/specification#Types_Source

### Emulators

List of emulators supporting this variation of DAP:

- Emu <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/X65/emu/main/emu.gif" alt="Emu"> — The [X65 Computer](https://x65.zone/) Emulator.

If you know any other, please create a PR with an update to the list.

## Acknowledgements

This extension builds on code from:

- [Alchemy65](https://github.com/AlchemicRaker/alchemy65)
- [db65xx](https://github.com/tmr4/db65xx)

Kudos to its authors!

Commit message:

Add screenshots to the README

README.md, after:

# cc65-dbg

This VS Code extension adds syntax and debugger support for cc65 and ca65.

## Features

Works with an adapter/emulator supporting Debug Adapter Protocol (DAP).

You need to provide your own debugger or debug adapter as `"command"` option,
which is able to communicate using DAP protocol over stdin/stdout or TCP socket.

The main job of this extension is to parse [debug info][1] file generated by
`ld65 --dbgfile` and use the information to drive the debugger executable.
It expects the file to be placed beside the `"program"` binary,
with `.dbg` extension.

[1]: https://cc65.github.io/doc/ld65.html#s7

### Screenshots

Breakpoints synchronization between Emulator and VS Code:

![Breakpoints synchronization between Emulator and VS Code](images/Emu_breakpoints_sync.png)

CPU registers inspector and watch:

![CPU registers view](images/CPU_registers.png)

### Requirements

> :warning: Following are violations of Debug Adapter Protocol, used to simplify
> the DAP-debugger implementation for 8-bit machine emulators.

The extension will present the breakpoint memory addresses as `lines` property
of [SetBreakpoints Request][2]. Debugger does not need to know anything
about the source structure - this is the job of the extension. It just needs to be able to
set *memory breakpoints*, pause and step through the program execution.

[2]: https://microsoft.github.io/debug-adapter-protocol/specification#Requests_SetBreakpoints

Breakpoints are presented in packs identified with `sourceReference` number
(`0` included) of [Source][3] descriptor. Your debugger endpoint should track the
source reference number of a breakpoint in order to remove it, when an update
for the pack is being received.

[3]: https://microsoft.github.io/debug-adapter-protocol/specification#Types_Source

### Emulators

List of emulators supporting this variation of DAP:

- Emu <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/X65/emu/main/emu.gif" alt="Emu"> — The [X65 Computer](https://x65.zone/) Emulator.

If you know any other, please [create a PR][4] with an update to the list.

[4]: https://github.com/X65/cc65-dbg/pulls

## Acknowledgements

This extension builds on code from:

- [Alchemy65](https://github.com/AlchemicRaker/alchemy65)
- [db65xx](https://github.com/tmr4/db65xx)

Kudos to its authors!
